Add docs for service accounts 8.5 (#46801)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/api-keys/create-api-key.md

---

> title: Create a API key in Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create an API key in Grafana
```

menuTitle: Create a API key
aliases: [docs/sources/administration/service-accounts/create-api-key.md]

> description: 'How to create a API key in Grafana'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'How to create an API key in Grafana'
```

weight: 50
keywords:
  - API keys
  - Service accounts
---

> # Create a API key in Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create an API key in Grafana
```

> To manage your computed workload with a user that is not tied to a user specifically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an API key when you want to manage your computed workload with a user that is not associated with a user.
```

> For more information about API keys refer to [About API keys in Grafana]({{< relref "./about-api-keys.md">}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about API keys, refer to [About API keys in Grafana]({{< relref "./about-api-keys.md">}}).
```

> You can create a API key in the API keys tab of the organization. To manage your computed workload with a user that is not tied to a user specifically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create an API key in the API keys tab of the organization. To manage your computed workload with a user that is not tied to a user specifically.
```

I don't understand the second sentence though? It seems incomplete

Author: maybe the second sentence makes more sense when e use the same sentence that we use for service accounts, and really skip the whole (not tied to a user).

The key can be used to run automated or compute workloads for specific use cases.

> You can create a API key in the API keys tab of the organization. To manage your computed workload with a user that is not tied to a user specifically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage your computed workload with a user that is not tied to a user specifically.
```

> For more information about creating API keys via the API, refer to [Create API key via API]({{< relref "../../http_api/create-api-tokens-for-org.md#how-to-create-a-new-organization-and-an-api-token">}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic shows you how to create an API key using the Grafana UI. You can also create an API key using the Grafana HTTP API. For more information about creating API keys via the API, refer to [Create API key via API]({{< relref "../../http_api/create-api-tokens-for-org.md#how-to-create-a-new-organization-and-an-api-token">}}).
```

Author: aha!!!!!!!!

Before you begin:

> 

Reviewer: Are there any prerequisites? Any permissions a user must have in order to create an API key? If there are truly no Before you begin items, you can remove this section entirely.

> **To create a API key:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To create an API key:**
```

> - Ensure you have permission to create and edit API keys. For more information about permissions, refer to [About users and permissions]({{< relref "../manage-users-and-permissions/about-users-and-permissions.md#">}}).

Reviewer: ah, move this bullet point up to the before you begin section. Also, I would add which permissions the user needs. Are they Grafana Admin permissions?

Reviewer: correct

> - Ensure you have permission to create and edit API keys, for more information refer to [About users and permissions]({{< relref "../manage-users-and-permissions/about-users-and-permissions.md#">}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure you have permission to create and edit API keys. For more information about permissions, refer to [About users and permissions]({{< relref "../manage-users-and-permissions/about-users-and-permissions.md#">}}).
```

> 1. In the Grafana console side menu, pause on the Configuration (gear) icon, then choose API Keys.

Reviewer 3: FYI the formatting is broken in this list, but I see Chris is addressing that in suggestions.

> 1. In the Grafana console side menu, pause on the Configuration (gear) icon, then choose API Keys.

Author: 👍

> 2. Choose **New API key**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **New API key**.
```

> 2. Choose **New API key**.

Reviewer: Couple of notes:

* All steps are 1. No need to enter 2, 3, etc.
* Not sure if you can make changes to the UI, but the "New API key" button should be labeled "Create API key". Reason: Using the word 'new' in a UI label is redundant because users never 'create old'. Which is to say, 'creating' implies that it is 'new'.

> 1. In the **Role** field, select one of the following access levels you want to assign to the key.

Reviewer 3: Broken formatting
<img width="1107" alt="Screenshot 2022-04-07 at 12 45 24" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1861190/162182124-c795557b-75ac-4d8c-96c8-1d56b8a7e440.png">

Reviewer: The bullet points should be aligned with the first character of the step above. My suggestions have added space - just two of them. Generate the docs after you accept the suggestion to ensure I've done it correctly.

> 3. Enter a unique name for the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter a unique name for the key.
```

> 4. For Role, select the access level that the key is to be granted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Role** field, select the access level you want to assign to the key.
```

> 4. For Role, select the access level that the key is to be granted.

Reviewer: I'm guessing that there is a **Role** field, so adjust words accordingly. Is it a dropdown?

> - **Admin**: Enables a user to use APIs at the broadest, most powerful administrative level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Admin**: Enables a user to use APIs at the broadest, most powerful administrative level.
```

> - **Editor** or **Viewer** to limit the key's users to those levels of power.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Editor** or **Viewer** to limit the key's users to those levels of power.
```

> - Select Admin to allow a user with this key to use APIs at the broadest, most powerful administrative level. Select Editor or Viewer to limit the key's users to those levels of power.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Admin**: Enables a user to use APIs at the broadest, most powerful administrative level. 
- **Editor** or **Viewer** to limit the key's users to those levels of power.
```

> - Select Admin to allow a user with this key to use APIs at the broadest, most powerful administrative level. Select Editor or Viewer to limit the key's users to those levels of power.

Reviewer: This is some of the content that you should work into the About topic. And provide more information about what Admin, Editors, and Viewers can and cannot do with those permission levels. Provide concrete examples. You can add a cross reference from this task back to the About topic.

> 1. For Time to live, specify how long you want the key to be valid. The maximum is 30 days (one month). You enter a number and a letter. The valid letters are s for seconds, m for minutes, h for hours, d for days, w for weeks, and M for month. For example, 12h is 12 hours and 1M is 1 month (30 days).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Time to live** field, specify how long you want the key to be valid. 

  The maximum length of time is 30 days (one month). You enter a number and a letter. Valid letters  include `s` for seconds,`m` for minutes, `h` for hours, `d `for days, `w` for weeks, and `M `for month. For example, `12h` is 12 hours and `1M` is 1 month (30 days).
```

> 1. For Time to live, specify how long you want the key to be valid. The maximum is 30 days (one month). You enter a number and a letter. The valid letters are s for seconds, m for minutes, h for hours, d for days, w for weeks, and M for month. For example, 12h is 12 hours and 1M is 1 month (30 days).

Reviewer: Question for me here. Is 'Time to live' an actual field name? Or is this a time picker? How does it present in the UI? We might want to jump on a call so I can take a look.

Author: yea this is an actual element in the UI.
<img width="723" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7727602/161957283-7ff11060-cba3-4d36-933b-3b1137bd50a2.png">

---
title: Create an API key in Grafana
menuTitle: Create an API key
description: 'How to create an API key in Grafana'
weight: 50
keywords:
  - API keys
  - Service accounts
---

# Create an API key in Grafana

> Create an API key when you want to manage your computed workload with a user that is not associated with a user.

Reviewer: @eleijonmarck just seeing this now, it reads funny "manage your workload with a user that is not associated with a user."

Author: great catch
